Add documentation for OpenTracing using Jaeger (#107)
mirumee/saleor-docs: docs/guides/opentracing-jaeger.md

> ---

Reviewer: I think you could put it under advanced: https://docs.saleor.io/docs/next/advanced/intro/ as it is meant for developers

---
id: opentracing-jaeger
title: OpenTracing with Jaeger
---

> Saleor has an implementation of OpenTracing used for tracing performance of the application. Jaeger is the currently implemented provider which allows to recap whats collected through dedicated web interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Saleor has an implementation of OpenTracing used to trace performance of the application. Jaeger is the currently implemented provider which allows to recap what is collected through a dedicated web interface.
```

Reviewer 2: Grammarly gave me this suggestion for the original text:

"Saleor has an implementation of OpenTracing used for tracing the performance of the application. Jaeger is the currently implemented provider that allows recapping what's collected through a dedicated web interface."

Reviewer: Sounds good

> Jaeger web interface helps you see through particular request, check how many queries it executes underneath, what these queries are (both SQL and GraphQL) and how much time each particular part of the process takes, all on a timeline of a single request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jaeger web interface helps you see through particular requests, such as checking how many queries it executes underneath, what these queries are (both SQL and GraphQL), how much time each particular part of the process takes, all on a timeline of a single request and much more.
```

This is not limited to only those few things, the tracing is still a work in progress, more will come and it will improve 😄 On Jaeger you can see a map/chart as well, which is a neat and useful feature, not only the segments themselves!

- HTTP requests implemented directly in GraphQLView:
    - tags
        - component - "http"
        - http.url - full URL of the request
        - http.client_ip - client ip adress in ipv4 or ipv6 format
        - peer.ipv4 - client ip if it was ipv4 (optional if peer.ipv6 is present)
        - peer.ipv6 - client ip if it was ipv6 (optional if peer.ipv4 is present)
        - http.method - request method
        - http.status_code - response status code
        - http.content_length - length of response content
    - logs
        - http.client_ip_originated_from - contains settings.REAL_IP_ENVIRON value
- GraphQL resolvers using Graphene middleware
    - tags
        - component - "graphql"
        - graphql.parent_type - parent type name
        - graphql.field_name - GraphQL field name
- GraphQL queries implemented directly in GraphQLView:
    - tags
        - component - "graphql_query"
        - error - optional, True if error occured
    - logs
        - query - querystring with length limited to settings.OPENTRACING_MAX_QUERY_LENGTH_LOG
- PostgreSQL queries using Django middleware
    - tags
        - component - "db"
        - db.type - "PostgreSQL"

>         - db.statement - SQL query statement

Reviewer: I think it would belong to its own opentracing section than jaeger (and adding a link to it here)
And the documentation is already outdated 😉 https://github.com/mirumee/saleor/pull/5292

>         - db.statement - SQL query statement

Reviewer: All of those segments can have `error`, `stack`, `error.kind`, `error.object` if a segment happens to fail

Author: @NyanKiyoshi is this already implemented? i can see `error` implemented but not the other ones

Reviewer: They are yes, this is done underneath, whenever a span crashes, opentracing will report the error.
